9:00 a.m. is Shanghai Shenzhen and here
in Hong Kong you're watching the China
show. I'm Y Ivon man with David.
>> Good morning. We're counting down to the
open of markets in greater China. Our
top stories today stocks across Asia
Pacific trading with hint of caution
here even as crypto bounces back uh in
fact in a big way 91,000 now uh on
Bitcoin. You do have pockets of risk
appetite to underscore the point.
Returning China's economy in focus this
hour with a fresh private reading on
activity in the [music] services sector.
One of China's biggest investment banks
says the time has come for authorities
to allow further yen appreciation. We're
going to speak with CICC's chief
strategist, Mao Yan.
>> And [music] Taiwan's foreign minister
weighs in on Beijing's anger with Japan
over the island's failure. [music] Uh
Lee Chaong, telling us exclusively the
dispute may drag on for a year.
>> [music]
>> Going into the Wednesday session, we are
flat in futures. [music] Could change.
We'll see what the PMI reading looks
like today. uh we'll talk more about the
sort of broader [music] significance of
this private reading in a moment which
normally we don't really spend too much
time looking at but just given the trend
that the data recently does underscore I
guess some broader importance and
significance as it pertains to this us
going into the la last month of the year
uh Nikki is better uh when you look at
the big movers to the upside here and
what's really lifting the benchmarks
although on a breath basis I think we're
almost evenly split in fact if not
negative breath u the big AI plays are
back in back in focus you're looking at
Samsung Electronics. You're looking at
SoftBank in Japan. You have Advant there
uh among the many names leading these
gains to the upside. S&P futures are
better by about a 10 to 1% going into
the thick of Wednesday. Uh it's a weaker
dollar story and it's quite clear when
you look at several of these exchange
rates, whether that's dollar China, you
look at where the euro is. Uh we talked
about Bitcoin. We'll look at that of
course going into the session today.
We're at 92,000. It's been very very
very volatile uh of late. Uh silver
futures are still seeing some upside to
60 bucks and gold futures also as you
can see on your screens there also
kicking higher a a notch here too right
a look at the 10-year yields today uh in
terms of bond auctions I believe we have
several coming out of Hong Kong uh it's
worth pointing out when you look at the
Chinese and the Japanese 10-year yields
right so it's something that's crossed
recently uh Japan now gives you a higher
yield nominal of course uh on the 10ear
yield at 187 compared where you are on
the Chinese 10-year yield. Uh we'll talk
more about the significance of the
broader trend uh later on the show.
Aussie 10year yields, I think we're just
coming off GDP numbers coming through
there. Korea GDP is also out. And in
terms of other data, inflation out of
Thailand will be coming out uh in the
next few hours or so. Keep an eye on
that. And yeah, we talked about the
currency and the strength we have seen
in the Chinese currency of late.
>> Yeah, you talk about the technicals,
right? All right, that rem now topping
that 200 week moving average and we're
now set for one of the best
outperformances for the remn uh in 5
years. So certainly there's a lot of
focus on that. We're going to get to
CIC's take on it. Why you know this new
range that we're seeing in the rem. It
may actually be good in terms of stoking
more domestic demand in the future here.
Of course, we're still focusing on the
the the weak macro picture, right? When
you take a look at what's going on with
Lanca and property bonds, uh that
private PMI services data from Raining
Dog is going to be quite interesting
here today given the fact that we've
seen the official and private gauges
have been in contraction uh for
November. And we also have bond sales
coming out from Hong Kong, some sales
debuts as well. But and in the midst of
all that, right, when you talk about the
weakness in the economy, the Hangen
volatility index, which we'll talk
about, is still quite low. This
disconnect that we're talking about
against macro and markets is still
there. crypto given the rebound. We'll
see how some of these crypto stocks are
doing. Car makers in Tesla, just given
that we saw those China shipments from
Tesla rising for just the third time
this year and the French president also
in China as well.
>> Yeah, let me pick up on several of the
points Ivon was just touching on there
and really get into things. Right. The
car makers for example I think I missed
the market reaction yesterday the
negative reaction in the car makers weak
monthly sales we talked about in Franco
and and the weakness that that
represents in the property sector and
you know this distinction between where
the market is headed and where the
economy seems to be headed again looking
at the PMI numbers coming through right
so in about what time is it now in about
40 minutes or so uh we'll get the rating
dog the private gauge on services coming
out and the reason that and estimates
bottom of your screens
that's taking on larger significance
today on the eco side of things. Right?
So, this is non-manufacturing official
PMI coming in at 49.5. The first sub50
reading a few days back going back to
COVID lockdowns in 2022, right? So, it's
we'll see what that holds later on, but
it underscores of course the softness
that we've seen uh in the numbers that
have come through recently. Of course,
uh that's a survey of course and not so
much hard numbers, right? Uh juxtaposed
against uh market metrics that are
pointing to more strength. Dollar China
we talked about is for the very first
time in nearly 3 years. We've flipped
the chart. It's still dollar China is
now trading above or below depending on
which one you're looking at that the
200E moving average for the first time
uh since about 3 years ago. So really
some strength has come through in the
currency and also when you look at
equity markets we'll talk about price in
a moment but the the Hangen V index is
actually now at the lowest since 2021
juxtaposed against an economy that
remains on the weaker side of things.
So, you know, we're below 18. It's
dropped quite substantially in the last
few weeks or so. It's now taking you
back all the way to 2022 levels. And it
just underscores the point. Can this
divergence continue? Uh, liquidity, what
have you, this barble strategy where you
have non-yclicals in the middle. You
have financials and income, but of
course, you also have some of the AI and
tech plays on the other side of things.
But yes, it's it's really a interesting
theme that's reemerged quite strongly of
late.
>> It it's interesting, right? the the AI
theme seems to be what's kind of leading
to that volat come down because you
continue to see good news on that front
that maybe people are quick to actually
pass on some of the the risk here when
it comes to the macro side of things
because I think it's only the second
time that we've actually seen the
manufacturing and non-manufacturing
gauges from the official PMI be in
contraction. I think the last time we
saw that was back to the pandemic days.
>> Both below 50.
>> Both below 50, right? So that's quite
significant here. It seems like just
based on headline numbers that you know
there is this urgency for some sort of
policy support. You add that to the fact
according to what we're hearing that
private data providers are being told by
authorities to suspend the release of
property data.
>> The monthly one
>> Tribium had a very interesting call on
that saying that's extremely bearish
signal that maybe this suggests that you
know they're running out of policy
levers and they're really focusing more
on the optics now than really on
focusing on improving the fundamentals.
>> Yeah. Well, I mean to some extent optics
do help especially when you're obviously
trying to facilitate influence coming
through and a stronger currency does
help that of course strengthen the case
and you know we we'll really be getting
more on this uh one of the top red
stories today on the terminal of course
is the write up uh of our next guest or
on our next guest's comments coming
through at this hour this time in the
next hour CICC chief strategist formerly
with the force safe in that official
capacity he's coming on to underscore
and we need to elaborate on that point
why we should be getting used to a
stronger Chinese currency from here on.
Catch that interview coming up through
there. There we go.
>> But first, let's get more with Bloomberg
executive editor for Asian Markets Paul
Dobson. He's joins us now from
Singapore. Um, yeah, Paul, just
highlight what we just saw here, right?
Data seems to see that we're counting
down to 2025 with the economy losing
momentum, but then again, V, we're not
seeing much of it uh in these Hong Kong
markets. This disconnect, what what do
you make of it?
Uh well, Ivon, good morning. Um it's not
too dissimilar, I guess, from what we're
seeing in the US at the moment with
extremely strong equity markets, but an
economy that seems to be wobbling
somewhat. Um and I think that the key to
that is that people are looking to the
future and they're looking to the AI
theme in particular as being a key kind
of like support and prop for markets at
the moment, which is why we're seeing
some of this sort of like slow and
steady uh bull market everywhere. Um
people are excited about the long-term
prospects, the transformational impact
on the economy that uh the new
technologies are likely to have. I think
for China as well um there's a little
bit more in play too. You've already got
very low bond yields. You've also got um
the property market in the doldrums. And
while that that's a drag on the economy,
it also means that savers are looking
for anywhere where they can get a little
bit of appreciation on their investments
and are turning more and more to the
stock market. So, we've seen a lot of
inflows from um uh Chinese people um on
the retail side or the the wealthy
individual side into the equities market
and on southbound uh connect into the
Hong Kong market as well all through
this year. And so that's been adding to
that kind of momentum that has been
keeping to uh support the gains and
keeping volatility in check as well.
Now, um we did have a little bit of a
wobble right across global markets not
too long ago and we saw some of those
ETFs um that have previously been
favored by the authorities um picking up
gains as well. So there's also a little
bit of a sense of a backs stop there if
we do get severe downdrag um on the
Chinese market and maybe that also is
contributing to that lower volatility
that we're seeing.
Paul, it's apart from the, you know, the
obvious themes, it it seems very very
quiet on on markets, not just today. And
I'm wondering, is it time to look at
some of the theme? Have any themes
emerged that we should be paying
attention to that, you know, normally we
won't have, you know, time and scope to
do so when when things get busy.
>> Uh, speak for yourself, David. It
doesn't feel that quiet to me. Um, but
we do have some interesting things going
on in the background, right? We've got
we've got the Fed the Fed coming up
quite soon. People talking about who the
next Fed governor is going to be, what
[clears throat] that's going to mean for
the US yield curve and for government
bonds everywhere. Got steepening yield
curves in the US. We've also got, you
know, steepening yields in Japan. Um
because the BOJ is taking so long to
raise interest rates that people are
worried about inflation. They're worried
about supply in the bond market as well.
And so that is sort of seeing that
general lift in in interest rate markets
all around the world. I think another
interesting theme that we've been going
on in the background all the way through
this year has been that of the
internationalization of the Chinese UN
and we see another example of that this
week where we have Russia selling bonds
denominated in UN raising some money
there setting a little bit of a
benchmark so that corporate issuers can
also take advantage of um the Chinese
currency that's washing around in the
Russian economy at the moment and being
able to put that to more use and I think
that you know we will continue to see
more bond issuance in remb all around
the world into next year as well, which
I think is, you know, an interesting
sort of more of a a a slow burner if you
like, if that's what you're looking for,
um to be talking about. Um but a
long-term trend and, you know, that sort
of idea of using the currency as a way
of expanding influence, building
connections with trading partners and
with allies around the world is
something that I think that China will
continue to push. It's it sort of talked
about it as being part of that long-term
goal for their fiveyear plan as well.
Paul, thank you. Paul Dobson in
Singapore for us on the key market
themes to watch today and uh beyond.
Just very very briefly uh where Paul is
of course we are looking at the biggest
nonat listing debut in Singapore. Ultra
Green AI shares uh I think we were
trading at about well it was 145 a pop
uh was the offering let's call it 160
right now. So better buy let's call it
10% first day of trade. There we go.
fluorescent technology used in surgical
imaging. That's what they
[clears throat] do. But yes, interesting
that it's not part of the reed space,
which really make up about what 10% of
the market cap in Singapore there as
well. So yeah, exactly what the SGS CEO
told us just a few weeks ago at NEF.
More interesting uh IPOs in the pipeline
there. Still ahead, we have our
exclusive interview with Taiwan's
foreign minister who sees tensions
between China and Japan over the
island's future dragging on for many
months.
uh it's not uh uh just uh different uh
uh uh uh policy uh uh uh uh change
through from the Japanese uh side but
for Beijing side maybe take a I think
maybe a year to to to to stabilize
[music] the situation.
Some world news, excuse me, this
morning. Russia has dashed hopes of
immediate progress towards [music] a
Ukraine ceasefire deal, saying the talks
in Moscow between President Vladimir
Putin and US [music] envoys could not
reach agreement on what the Kremlin
calls territorial issues. Now, Putin met
with Steve Whit and Jared Kushner for
almost 5 hours. Uh his foreign [music]
policy aid says wording of some US
proposal is not acceptable and [music]
work will continue. Now Axio says that a
US team is expected to meet Ukraine's
president somewhere in Europe after
leaving Russia. Right. Uh French
President Emanuel Macron begins a 3-day
visit to China today. Something we're
tracking of course with Taiwan with the
Taiwan issue [music] expected to take
center stage. Ahead of Macron's meeting
with the president Xi Jinping, [music]
Beijing will has been seeking support
from France in its dispute with Japan
over Taiwan status. Now, trade will also
be on the agenda with Macron pushing
[music] the EU to deploy its toughest
tools in response to Chinese
restrictions on rare earth supply.
>> All right, uh tracking some [music] live
kind of comments here when it comes to
the Korea president Lie Muon. He's
speaking in Soul this morning for the
past couple minutes now. He talked about
the economy earlier, but now he's kind
of focusing a bit more on the
geopolitics and particularly when it
comes to this China Japan spat in terms
of South Korea's perspective. They said
the country shouldn't side with China or
Japan in this dispute and South Korea
should seek ways to mediate so the
nations can coexist. So, a bit of a
diplomatic sort of response there from
the president here this morning, Dave.
>> Yeah. Okay. Well, that takes us into uh
what we're focused on in the next couple
of minutes. Uh Taiwan of course says
it's confident that the Trump White
House will eventually allow president
the president there to make a US
stopover on his way to visit diplomatic
allies in Latin America. Now President
Trump denied a request for lie to pass
through the US in August on concerns it
could disrupt trade negotiations with
China. Let's uh take it out to Taipei
and our chief North Asia correspondent
Steven Angel is there who spoke
exclusively with Taiwan's foreign
affairs minister. Steve, uh, yeah, it
takes me all the way back to August and
what didn't happen back then. Lots to
unpack, including Trump, of course,
signing this bill that aims to what?
Deepen Taiwan and US ties. What do we
know about that?
>> Yeah, there is lots to unpack. Let's go,
let's start with that one first because
this is a bill that was proposed uh by a
Missouri Republican representative
essentially to shore up America's
commitment to Taiwan. Of course, Taiwan
US relations are governed by the US
Taiwan relations act and then sort of in
practice uh by Washington this strategic
ambiguity. So, this is essentially a
bill that Donald Trump did sign uh
within the last few hours, I do believe,
essentially to uh deepen uh that um
partnership, if you will, with Taiwan
that would uh basically dictate the
State Department to make reviews at
least every 5 years uh to policies
towards Taiwan that are aimed at
boosting and improving relations with
Taiwan. This comes at a time of course
within the last couple of weeks that
Donald Trump spoke again with Xiinping
where Xiinping essentially you know
re-emphasized
uh the importance of Taiwan's reunion
with the mainland. However, the White
House readout of that call did not
mention Taiwan. Meanwhile, of course,
the big overarching story behind all of
this is that frackus between Beijing and
Ta and Japan over Taki IchiSan's
comments about Taiwan. This is what uh
the foreign affairs minister of Taiwan,
Lin Chai Long, basically said to me in
an exclusive interview in Taipei.
>> So we have very uh uh uh uh uh uh good
uh communication channels uh which the
Japanese uh government. So we are trying
to manage the the situation
uh to avoid uh it's kind of a a
situation out of control. So uh because
>> so are you saying you're downplaying it
because the response so far from Lingo
the president has been fairly muted?
>> Yes. So uh we show our support through a
I think a a soft uh approach
uh uh uh uh suggesting that uh uh our uh
people to to travel to to to Japan uh
also to eat Japanese food. So we want to
uh to help cool down the situation
because once the uh uh uh Chinese
nationalist sentiments uh uh uh uh
stimulated it very to some extent yeah
uh uh uh out of control. So I think even
I think for Beijing uh uh it also not in
its interest to escalate the the the
conflict. What are you communicating to
Tokyo? You do you want them to back down
to cool tensions or stand ground? I
think uh it's in everyone's interest to
to stabilize the the current situation
because once uh uh she gin yeah mobilize
it society through uh uh uh naturalist
sentiment
is also not in she's interest because
you know the economic uh downturn and
yeah and also the
uh the the rising uh unemployment rate
and also the uh trade uh uh uh uh uh uh
conflict with uh the United States. So I
think it's not in everyone's interest to
have the uh China Japan uh uh uh uh uh
disputes and the the issues related to
Taiwan to to escalate. So by not
provoking Beijing, you feel, this is the
way I'm reading it, you feel that this
could die down sooner.
>> Yes, I think so. How long? Because
>> I think Japan
uh has already show its uh willingness
because it's in in the parliament. Yeah.
Uh in the QA session.
>> Yeah.
>> So that has some uh backgrounds. Yeah.
So it's not uh uh just uh a different uh
uh uh uh policy uh uh uh uh change
through from the Japanese uh side but
for Beijing side maybe take a I think
maybe a year to to to to stabilize the
situation but for saving uh uh sin's
face he has to do something to show his
uh uh uh uh uh domin ation in in the
disputes
>> as he mentioned right this might prolong
for a few months Steve we also
understand Beijing is well aware of your
interview with Minister Lynn what what's
been China's reaction so far
>> yeah well first of all this was the
first uh interview with foreign media
for the foreign affairs minister Lynn
yesterday so his comments were closely
watched the Nikke newspaper in Japan
picked up our story. The Taipei Times
here in in Taiwan picked up the story
and also a question was asked of the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Beijing
about that story and Beijing was quick
to essentially say uh Taiwan is part of
China and there is no such thing as a
so-called foreign minister of Taiwan. Uh
they also went at took the opportunity
if you will to slam the efforts uh by
the ruling party the DPP here and this
is what uh the ministry of foreign
affairs spokesperson in Beijing had to
say yesterday afternoon.
>> The DPP Taiwan's Democratic Progressive
Party authorities harbor malicious
intentions which are contemptable. Their
attempts to seek independence by relying
on foreign forces are doomed to fail.
So guys uh in the next hour we're going
to unpack further that exclusive
interview uh with the foreign affairs
minister of Taiwan Mr. Lynn and talk
about his efforts in Europe. He's been
to Europe three times in the last
several months and also just in the last
month the vice president Xiaoi Kim uh
gave an address to the European uh
parliament. So again there's efforts
diplomatic efforts abroad with
like-minded economies and like-minded uh
nations to uh garner some support for
Taiwan.
Steve, thank you so much. Stephen Angel,
our chief North Asia correspondent in
Taipei for us. We had a very punchy fix,
but there's a there's a bit of a
qualifier to that. We'll talk about that
in a moment. Declines going into [music]
the session today. This is the China
Show.
Welcome back. We've been talking about
the stronger currency of late. So, two
things on the fixing today. It was on an
absolute basis the [music] strongest
fixing going back to October of last
year. We'll get to more of this. In
fact, my chart doesn't go all the way
far enough to talk about that, but yes,
the stronger [music] fixing, but but
compared to estimates, you probably saw
that headline, the weakest bias on the
setting compared to the estimate and
that spread [music] between the two
going back to June of this year. We put
that on a chart for you. 89 basis points
is the spread between [music] those two
things. You're watching the China show.
The open is coming up. This is
Bloomberg. Good morning.
Welcome back. You're watching the China
show. Just over 40 seconds [music] to
the opening bell. Looking at some
weakness coming through across futures
and initial pricing. We're below 26,000
on the hanging index. Weaker buys in the
fix. We'll talk more about that in a
moment. And in about 15 minutes [music]
or so, uh uh the private gauge on
services PMI comes out. The estimates
[music] are for 52 above 52. The
official non-manufacturing number though
came in below 50. So [music] we'll see
whether that divergence uh closes in
fact along those lines.
>> Yeah. Hopefully it bucks the trend right
from what we've been seeing which has
been continued slow uh softness [music]
when it comes to some of these PMI
gauges whether you look at official and
private this week. So uh you know
certainly we're looking for signs of
maybe still some resilience when it
[music] comes to the services side of
things. Uh but then again as we talk
about the macros are getting weaker but
V still remains quite [music] low when
it comes to this equity market
particularly when it comes to all that
you're seeing on Hang Sen. So certainly
can this disconnect and this sort of
dichconomy between markets continue and
the macro side of things that is a key
question as we countdown to 2025. In
terms of mainland open is what we're
looking at it's pretty slow going here
so far. were flat when it comes to the
CSI 300. Only Shanghai's slightly to the
downside here today. Keep in mind
though, it's interesting to watch how
the bond space is sort of evolving,
right? We did get confirmation the PBOC
did buy bonds for a second straight
month. And given just how weak the data
has been in November, you have the likes
of Capital Economics say expect record
lows when it comes to those yields,
particularly when it comes to the
Chinese tenure. Uh given those two
combinations of PBOC buying as well as
the weakness in the economy. So Chinese
tenure yields at 1.8 right now. I think
we once reached 1.6 earlier this year.
So they're thinking we are heading in
that direction here so far. And we're
watching very closely what happens with
the remn as well. But for the most part
there hasn't been that much in terms of
catalyst here as we countd down to the
end of the year. Um you're not seeing
that much movement in some of these big
plays here this morning. Copper even
despite reaching those record highs this
week, we're coming off that just a
little bit. Shanghai crude though is
lower by about 1% or so. You flip the
boards though. focusing on the currency
as Dave mentioned. So that was the
weakest bias for the fix that we've seen
since June. So given the strength that
we've seen, maybe we are seeing a little
bit of weakness here today, but we're
still hovering about 706 levels here.
Still on track for the best performance
for the reming
all these trade tensions that we've seen
all year as well. We're going to get
CICC's takes on it. Uh Mr. Meow is going
to talk a bit more about why the time is
now for this new range and the strength
in the currency to persist because it is
now time to really kind of focus on
domestic demand. Maybe with a stronger
currency you can get people to import
more, buy more, spend more and the like.
So there you go. Um we'll get more on
him coming up there. He's coming up the
top of the hour. But then again, the
tech space seems to be selling off here
in Hong Kong. We're lower by about 610
of 1% for H's tech. That's dragging the
hang lower too. We're just under that
26,000 level here in terms of you know
sectors to watch. We are focusing on
maybe Tesla suppliers because it's only
seen their car sales rise I think three
times this year. Um they so we are
seeing with some of these suppliers they
are looking okay here today. The likes
of lens is up about 610 of 1% but CL
shares uh are basically flat here right
now but you're still tracking of course
V Dave and the like. Yeah, and just on
the just to juxtapose that you know, you
know, V ideally when you look at it
theoretically should not be trading this
low given the weakness that we're seeing
in parts of the economy. Ivonne talked
about Tesla suppliers and Tesla's up
what three months in a row only. Um I
think this time yesterday we were
looking at negative market reaction to
the weak monthly car sales. But yet here
you are with a with a metric on markets
trading at about the lowest in about
four years or so. And I guess there's
divergence between the equity market and
where you are with some parts of the
economy. U that is just to say um should
we remain constructive on Chinese
equities despite some obvious headwinds
and why should we remain constructive on
Chinese equities going into next year to
help us answer that question. Bank of
Singapore is here with us on set to talk
us through that very thesis. Favorable
tailwinds remain intact. Joining us here
on set, China equity strategist at Bank
of Singapore, Louisa F. Good morning.
Very nice to see you.
>> Morning. Yeah, thanks.
>> So why?
>> Um I think favorable wins are mainly
coming from three to four areas. First
of all, in the macro front like what you
have just mentioned, uh R&B has
stabilized and with uh mus appreciation
bias, um we forecast R&B uh to uh stay
at 6.95 over a 12 month horizon and that
has uh been supportive usually uh for
MSEI China over the past decade or so.
Secondly, when we focus on the
fundamentals, we see some signs of
earning stabilization uh for the
offshore market. Uh we've seen uh some
of the earnings uh revision momentum has
stabilized and we tweaking some of the
upward earnings revision momentum more
recently especially we see some of the
peak in terms of food delivery and quick
commerce competition investment and
subsidies peaking in the September
quarter. Uh we're not saying that the
competition is end but the peak
investment in subsidy probably would
have passed. Uh so that would be
supportive. Um also coming back on the
fundamental basis is return on equity uh
has already bought some last year in
2024 we are seeing some of the index
heavy sector would likely to benefit uh
from a rec ongoing recovery of the roe.
For instance, uh the advanced
manufacturing that has been uh focused
by the uh policy maker also biotech. Uh
so that actually fits into the
communication services consumer
discretionary IT sectors. The
anti-involution initiative also has been
supportive for the material sector as
well. And to our surprises, financials
uh we've seen a very resilient earnings
and especially for non-bank financial as
well. That's also being reflected in the
Asia market earnings in 3Q that's bucked
the downtrend.
>> Okay.
>> How critical is it then for for earnings
to actually have to drive 2026? Because
you know we were talking about how it's
really been a valuation sort of story
for but that's also getting a bit tired
now that sort of theme.
>> Um if we look at 2025 bulk of the
performance in the Hong Kong China
equities market has been driven by
valuation rerating. We are now probably
I would describe it as a normalized
value hovering plus within the range of
plus 0.5% standard deviation to
historical average for to maybe plus one
standard deviation for the onshore
market. So the next focus will be
earnings. So um for this year we are
looking at 2025 low singledigit earnings
growth. Going into 2026 uh we are seeing
some confirmation of the positive trends
like what have I have mentioned. So that
will give the market a more comfort
looking through into 2026 which the
market is now forecasting a low teens
sort of earnings growth momentum.
>> In in in your report you've highlighted
one specific economic metric which is
producer prices.
>> Um my producers are about to put that up
on a chart including a tracker that sort
of attempts to throw that forward. Uh
what's the connection? And what does
that have to do with equity markets and
why is that you think a positive cate
because that's still deeply negative in
my in in my view. Look at that.
>> Uh we well the market usually look at
both CPI and PPI as a gauge to
>> inflation or deflation. So the focus of
PPI here or or we treat it or see it as
a proxy to uh whether deflation is
easing. um we are seeing uh that has
been narrowing and I think the market is
forecasting by 2026 it will further
narrow to maybe minus 1%. If any further
acceleration uh in terms of the
narrowing of the PPI back to neutral or
positive territory that would suggest
the deflation pressure easing that is
actually very positive for the revenue
growth.
>> Yeah,
>> understood. Uh you mentioned one of the
the tailwinds is policy beneficiaries
anti-evolution certainly you mentioned a
little bit of that I think so far we've
seen that really benefit the material
section uh as as you mentioned but maybe
not so in other parts are there other
parts that you're tracking for next year
where we might actually see more of that
roe emerging
>> um I think this time around the focus is
slightly different from what we first
seen maybe five or seven years ago uh
this time around not just the upstream
sector sector but more on the mid to
downstream. So notably within the
material sector some other sector that
could potentially benefit more from the
anti-volution initiative including for
instance like solar uh lithium uh we are
talking at the sub sector level uh but
in the midstream I think one of the
focus will be like for instance NEV um
that has been a lot of competitions in
the onshore in terms of production
volume so on and so forth so that we are
talking about more me to downstream that
sort of sectors. Yeah.
>> Okay. Um, one question we've been asking
a lot of our guests, and this is
hypothetical, obviously, we don't know
what's going to happen. If the US AI
story corrects next year,
>> case in point, if the S&P 500 corrects
next year, what is what is what is the
correlation between what happens there
and Asian equities and specifically
Chinese equity benchmarks? What
>> what relationship does that have?
>> Okay. Um, I think we can look at it from
two levels. First of all from the
overall market correlations um I think
among across Asian equities market Hong
Kong and also offshore and onshore
Chinese equities market has the lowest
correlation. I think uh historical data
have shown that Korea, Japan and Taiwan
they have relatively much higher
correlation with S&P 500. So at this
level uh if this scenario pans out like
what you have described the onore market
i.e. the Asia market will be the most
resilient and uh we will probably change
our technical overweight or or
preference on a relative basis.
Currently, we prefer the offshore market
because we do believe um the fed rate
cut cycle could benefit more for the
offshore equities and secondly our
offshore market still have quite a
sizable of the internet and platform
plays that we see them as the core AI
proxies. Now the second level that we
can look at it is first of all from a
valuation perspective um all these um AI
proxies or internet platform companies
across the board they are trading at a
discount versus US and global peers
that's one thing secondly um they are
more domestic focused I would say okay
>> and lastly I think a lot of concern is
regarding cash flow uh in the US part or
the developed market part uh whereas in
China many of the leading player they
are either in net cash
>> or their operating cash flow um would
have still be positive I mean 2025 is an
exception because of the food delivery
and the quick commerce competition but
looking at the forecast going into 2026
all these operating cash flow will see a
rebound and they are still remain in a
positive territory so I think that's a
major difference
>> is there still a need to be defensive in
this market you know in terms of quality
plays we've seen at least when it comes
to dividend yields that's compressed a
bit. Is it still worth putting having in
your portfolio?
>> Uh the short answer is yes for several
reasons. Um first of all um yes the
dividend yield has come down but the
other thing that we also look at is the
youth spread uh versus the China 10-year
bond yield. uh if you look across the
board for instance which is like this
banks or telos so on and so forth they
are still trading at 400 basis point
plus versus China 10-year government
bond yield um I think market is still
looking at uh around 1.6 6 1.7%
that sort of level for the China 10-year
bond yield and that will be the buffer
that I will be focusing on rather than
just look at the dividend yield on its
own.
>> You final question you you mentioned
return on equity um earlier and that's
one of the factors why you like the
market. Why do you think that's been
resilient and what do you think keeps
return on equity positive next year?
Speaking of just dividends and is that
down to returns to investors of cash in
ter in terms of dividends or is that
price in the market? Um I think RO in
the long term that's what inst
especially for institutional investor
that they will focus on and in the long
term that will correlate with the
valuation more notably on price to book
and when you decompose the roe there are
several factors margin is one of those
um so we are seeing we're expecting
earnings and margin recovery that's one
of the drivers uh asset turnover uh yes
and no because China has not been a
overleveraged
market from this perspective.
Shareholders return uh that has been
improving. We are seeing especially from
a dividend uh payout and also from share
buyback especially by some of the index
heavy internet names they are still
conducting ongoing doing the um share
buyback.
>> Louisa thank you Louisa Faul there China
equity strategist at Bank of Singapore.
Coming up, a week after Hong Kong's
worst fire [music] in decades, we look
at how claims of ignored warnings are
stoking renewed political tensions and a
fresh test for Beijing. This is
Bloomberg.
[music]
So the data that we flagged earlier has
not come out. This is the private gauge
on services and it's to Ivon's point
actually bucked the trend. We've seen a
series of sub50 PMI numbers of late.
This one seems to be bucking the trend
which is obviously encouraging to that
front. 52.1
>> in line with estimates slightly lower
from the previous month's read.
>> All right, at least some good news on
that front. Um you take a look when it
comes to other news that we're tracking
for you this morning. Taiwanese
prosecutors have charged Tokyo Electron
with failing to prevent staff from
allegedly stealing TSMC trade secrets.
Now, they're asking a local court to
impose a fine on the company for
neglecting its duty to stop the alleged
theft. Tokyo Electron says it is still
verifying the details that the
indictment targets its Taiwan unit and
shares a Danish management company ISS
slumped amid concern over its role in
renovating the Hong Kong apartment
complex where a fire last week killed
more than 150 people. A unit of the firm
was serving as property manager of the
estate. The company says its rule was
limited to arranging services from third
parties appointed by the building's
owners and it made no decisions on the
renovation.
>> And it's been about one week since the
tragedy and authorities are continuing
their investigations into really what
caused the fire and a signs of ignored
warnings are starting to stoke more
public anger. Let's bring in Minman Low,
our China correspondent. And we are
getting more information about these
warnings. All these warnings that seem
to have been missed. What do we know
specifically?
>> Yes. And this is based on our
Bloomberg's team uh our team's reporting
after extensive interviews with dozens
of residents and it seems like there
were lapses on multiple levels. As early
as 2016, this was when the building was
up for inspection because under Hong
Kong law, any buildings above 30 years
old need to go through inspection. So
Will's uh power e uh will power
architecture was brought in and they
have assessed the building. They decided
what needed to be done and then prestige
construction won the bid and during that
time residents were already upset at the
price they had to pay $ 160,000 Hong
Kong dollars which they felt was too
expensive. So they had written to the
anti-corruption agency.
>> This is per this is per resident
>> uh per household.
>> Per household. Okay. Okay. So they wrote
to the anti-corruption agency to
investigate this whether there was any
corruption involved, any bid rigging
because local media reports say that the
entire industry is very ugly. It's very
common for for example construction
companies to set up multiple companies
run by the same bosses and they all put
in bids that predatory pricing where
they bid very low prices and then add on
a lot of additional unnecessary costs
for example. But anyway, they already
you know alerted the corruption bureau
to this and then later on when
construction started they noticed the
materials including the styrofoam
boards, the netting and they were they
raised concerns to the companies
involved both the consultant and the
company and they were so angry that they
in fact had lit a styrofoam board on
fire in a public meeting with the owners
committee just to show how quickly it
catch on fire. But again their warnings
uh the the concerns were dismissed. They
wrote to the Department of Labor as well
and again you know they were told that
the the materials were compliant and
they were so angry they actually
overthrew the owners committee that was
overseeing the entire process and the
department of labor visited the site 16
times. They didn't find issue with the
netting because we knew the construct
the contractors were very smart. They
wrapped the base of the buildings with
compliant materials. Only the ones that
are higher floors were non-compliant but
they did find other fire safety lapses.
So they find the company. They had
issued multiple warning letters and yet
uh here we are right. So there are a lot
of questions as to first of all whether
the inspections were effective, whether
the rules were strong enough um and why
was wasn't investigations done ahead of
time.
>> Yeah. Amidst all this sort of grieving,
you're seeing a lot of public anger
whether you know questions about
accountability and the like. tell us a
little bit more about the political
fallout that we've seen and how is this,
you know, is this in any ways, you know,
striking up any unease when it comes to
Beijing?
>> Yeah, certainly. I mean, yesterday
during this press conference that John
Lee had held, he was asked appointedly
by a reporter whether he should deserve
to stay on as chief executive. Of
course, he sidestepped that question.
But this is it's been a long time since
we hear such questions, right? The last
time there were very public calls for a
chief executive to step down was in 2019
2020 during the protests right and then
after that the national security law
came in and those voices were largely
silenced. So we have heard that question
being posed to John Lee explicitly at
the press conference. Um and certainly I
think people will be watching the
legislative council elections coming up
on Sunday. Of course it's not
necessarily going to be reflected in the
results because it's a patriots only
electoral system. now that is imposed by
Beijing. Um but yes, there is some level
of public discontent and we can feel the
anxiety from the government. Just if you
watch yesterday's press conference, you
hear the conviction in John Lee's voice
when he talked about,
>> you know, how important it is to to
arrest people who are using this
incident to sabotage it um and to take
advantage of this incident for their own
political purpose. And police presence
had ramped up at the site near the fire.
Volunteers were asked to clear out.
They're taking the government is taking
control of donation drive just to ensure
that you know that public gathering and
the public display of grief doesn't turn
into anger.
>> Midman, thank you Mman. Lo there our
China correspondent with the latest and
we'll have more coming up. This is
Bloomberg.
Some other corporate news this morning.
JD.com supply chain technology unit has
started taking investor orders for a
Hong Kong IPO that could raise more than
$420 [music] million US, capping more
than 2 years of efforts to go public.
Beijing based Jing Dong Industrials is
set [music] to list its shares on
December 11th. It keeps Hong Kong's IPO
market on track to [music] see listing
proceeds notch a 4-year high. Tesla's
China factory shipments rose for only
the third time this year amid a global
sales slump. Tesla shipped about 86,000
vehicles from its [music] Shanghai plant
in November. That's up 10% from a year
earlier. It was the second highest
monthly total this year behind
September. The gain though is a rare
bright spot for the EV maker as [music]
it faces subsidy cuts in the US and a
likely second straight annual decline in
sales. And Shanghai says it's removed
over 40,000 online posts related to
property as it tightens oversight about
what it says is misinformation. The
city's cyerspace administration says is
[music] working with platforms including
Shia Hong Shu and Billy Billy
authorities say over 70,000 real estate
related accounts have also been dealt
with. And there's much more coming up
when it comes to China property. Ahead,
we're sort of talk to UBS Investment
Bank about their new report looking at
the bank and really what their exposure
to the property market [music] is right
now.
>> Right. Just a brief look at earnings
before we wrap up the first hour at the
show. Alibaba Health earnings estimates
raised at JP Morgan shares are down
[music] 1.3. There's a debut in
Singapore today. Was doing quite well
last week. Check up as much as 10%. The
largest nonat [music]
debut in Singapore. I think going back
many years, 2017 coming up on your
screens. It's still doing very well.
8.3. Samsung CNT [music] is the biggest
mover to the upside on the MCI Asia
Pacific. This is down to uh we are
getting [music] more shares coming
through of JY Lee from his mom. Uh
that's just to say a lot of details
missed there, but yes, that's the
headline there. And Shenzhen
Transmission, speaking of IPOs has filed
for a listing in Hong Kong, shares are
down 6.7 in mainland China. Those are
the big movers to tell you about at this
point. There is plenty more on the way
in the second hour of the China show.
Welcome back to the China show. Here's a
look at the HSI [music] half hour into
the session. It looks like we are
extending declines here this morning.
Just half an hour into the trade. We're
down about 1% uh when it comes to eight
[music] shares here this morning. HStech
also is lower by 1%. And so certainly a
little bit more pressure when it comes
to the equity market in Hong Kong here
today. You flip that with what you're
seeing in Shanghai uh and onshore
markets. They're looking relatively
speaking a little bit more resilient in
the face of all that we're seeing. So
there you go. You see Shanghai Composite
is slightly just down. A CSI thread is
actually up this morning as well. And
we're focusing a little bit more not
just on the equity moves, but really has
been on the currency of late. had a
quiet appreciation
of the REMMBB which you really haven't
been talking about up until recently.
We're we're back to 706 levels here
right now. You're getting more a chorus
of economists and you know FX traders
out there that say we could be seeing a
sub7 handle or around 7 for next year.
Uh we did see when it came to the the
remix here today, it was a weakest bias
since June, but then again, we're still
talking about quite a bit of strength
when it comes to this currency here
right now. And you know why now is a
time perhaps for a lower trading range
for dollar China.
>> Yeah, it's silently caught up right at
706. And if someone tells me that's a
weak US dollar story, all I'll tell them
is look at where the yen is trading and
look at where the Indian rupee is
trading. And it's not a weak US dollar
story, right? I think when you look at
the currency against G10, it's really
outperformed the G10 space.
>> This is the last two months effectively.
It's a look at quarter to date. Um and
of course as you can see the currency
has strengthened against all G10 peers
and quite a bit especially against the
chi well the Japanese currency. Now on
what we've observed as this silent but
meaningful shift in the Chinese currency
in a fresh trading range. We did speak
uh to many of our guests about the very
topic. Have a listen to some of the
latest that we've heard so far on the
Chinese currency.
R&B has stabilized and with uh modest
appreciation bias um we forecast R&B uh
to uh stay at 6.95 over a 12 month
horizon and that has uh been supportive
usually uh for MSEI China over the past
decade or so. Secondly, when we focus on
the fundamentals, we see some signs of
earning stabilization. uh for the
offshore market uh we've seen uh some of
the earnings uh revision momentum has
stabilized
>> the R&B uh from a valuation perspective
competitive p perspective you look at
China's export and even especially if
you do product by product it is
extremely competitive it is on the low
end of valuation we've seen a very long
stretch of real R&B depreciation the
longest one actually uh since the 1990s
or the actually the largest one in terms
of magnitude since the 99 is extremely
competitive. We're just looking for a
catalyst.
>> Yeah. And that's really showed up in the
form of a stronger fixing almost in a
day-to-day basis. Right. So even the fix
today which had a weaker bias relative
to estimates on an absolute basis. The
this is the this is a chart that tracks
the daily midpoint. You know 70754 is
actually the strongest going back to
about October of last year. That's point
one. Point number two is when you look
at dollar China weekly charts uh it's
the first time we're trading and we've
broken through the 200 week moving
average uh on that I've reversed the
axis for you but that's still dollar
China that's just to see of course we've
taken out a key technical level for the
first time there Ivon since 20 uh 23 and
of course also just to mention to this
generational shift we've seen right
juaposed against the shift in yields
that happened this week very recently
Kenya yields in Japan are above China's
of course a very low rate environment
and might actually bode well in terms of
supply and moving forward.
>> Yeah, we were just talking about capital
economics. Their call that maybe we
could see that 10-year yield in China
get back to record lows of maybe 1.6%
that we reached uh earlier this year
given the PBOC is buying bonds once
again given the weakness in the economy.
But yes, the need for stronger
currencies certainly is one of the big
stories on your terminal here today. One
of the best read stories that we've seen
here uh in the region. Joining us now is
of course behind that call from CIC,
Yaing Mea, chief strategist at CIC. Uh
Dr. Ma, it's great to have you back on
the program. Great to be back.
>> You argue that the timing is now for
policy makers to allow for a stronger
currency. Just tell us in terms of the
timing, why now?
>> Yes. Uh well I think you know if you
look at remb at real effective terms
that's what determines uh you know a
currency's competitiveness.
>> You should we shouldn't focus very
narrowly on the nominal exchange rate.
We should probably look at the real
effective terms.
>> On real effective terms remaining B has
been on its weakest since 2012.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh I think for the past 10 years it's
depreciated about 16%. On the other
hand, if you look at the US dollar, US
dollar on real effective terms is the
strongest in the almost past 40 years.
You know, we know the this year is not a
particularly good year for the dollar
because in the beginning of the year in
January, the DXY index hit 110. Now it's
about 100. It's not a weak dollar yet,
but I think you know if you you really
look at the exchange rate, you should
focus on really effective terms. So that
means the remn is really has a good
purchasing power. The purchasing power
you know in in easy to understand terms
you can look at the big mac index. You
can look at you know now people look at
you know that's McDonald index. Now
people look at the four season index
right? Four season hotel index New York
and Washington DC the standard the
standard n rate is like almost $2,000
>> but in in Beijing it's like $200 US. So
that shows that remn has a lot of
purchasing power. As with regard to
question why now I think you know there
are three forces joined together.
Fundamentals
um you see how competitive the Chinese
economy is how resilient it is and then
policy wise um I think both PPC and US
Federal Reserve are under pressure to
ease. Um but probably you know the
Federal Reserve going to to move even on
bigger terms. you know news just break
out you know they probably have a new
fed chair and then last but not least we
also need to look at um the positions or
capital flows um this is towards the
year end towards the year end I think
you know there is some um currencies or
you know export revenues need to be
shifted back to to to homeland so
all in all I'm saying is exchange rate
should be determined by market forces
and then all these three market forces
whether fundamentals or interest rate or
is the positions capital flows they just
you know maybe towards the year end
>> they just amplify and combine each other
that's make it a good timing to let
market decide market decide doesn't mean
it's just one way one way trade right
market decided means it can be a two-way
volatility it can be you know a stronger
mean it can be also at times you know if
you know the the tide shift and it can
be also a you know weaker it doesn't
mean just one way straight up yeah Won't
a stronger currency run counter to
>> the efforts to reinflate the economy and
looking at price pressures that isn't
that isn't that deflationary and how do
you how do you square those two things
>> definitely uh I think you know this is
the biggest concern that you know if you
have a I textbook would tell you if you
are have a inflation problem right
deflation problem you need to have
weaker currency right
>> um but what I'm saying is there's no
magic bullet or panaceia exchange rate
definitely like a panacy for everything
>> exchange rate is just you know mostly
for external balance
>> so that we shouldn't really in isolation
>> okay
>> and we should you know you should have
for China's low inflation the queue
really ls fiscal expense on fiscal
stimulus so combined with monetary
easing and the fiscal stimulus then you
will have both uh higher inflation also
a stronger currency only that is
possible If you if you look at how the
US get out of the low inflation um
postcoid
>> is both monetary easing and fiscal
easing but they probably have you know
they probably overdid it a little bit so
they have a inflation too high but
before covid for the 10 years they tried
everything mostly on the monetary side Q
from QE1 to QE4
>> inflation was stopp it was never above
2%
>> only with a big massive fiscal easing us
finally hit you know above target and
then in the initial stage people's
response was that wow they have huge
fiscal easing fiscal deficit that means
a weak dollar it turned out not to be
true right dollar is we have a strong
dollar not rather than weak dollar that
shows if you have fiscal easing you
actually we actually not reduce interest
rate you actually kick the interest up
that helps attract capital flows that
have you know a stronger currency. So my
advice or suggest is really you
shouldn't take in isolation. It's a
combination of monetary and fiscal
eating. Only in that case you will have
a stronger remn and also you know u get
out of the low inflation zone.
>> What what sort of pace of of
appreciation do you think is appropriate
because there is this concern that this
could actually hurt exports which could
then weigh on growth at a moment when
exports is something that is still quite
resilient in this economy. Yeah. Um, you
know, 20 years ago there was an argument
that because on average Chinese export
the profit margin is only 3%. So the
argument goes that you know the
appreciation pace should never be above
3% a year. That argument turned out to
be you know to prove to be very wrong
because you see that Chinese export
doing so well. That argument you know
it's average doesn't mean everything.
There's some companies doing very well
above average. Some companies doing you
know not as well as average. This is
this is the market forces right they the
the strongest the fittest survives. So I
think similar today
>> uh I think Chinese companies so
competitive a very modest appreciation
wouldn't hurt their competitiveness.
Similarly to the argument David just
mentioned a gradual you know
appreciation I don't think it will be a
big headwind to inflation as well
>> this helps the I want to talk about the
the broader longerterm effort to
internationalize the currency and a
stronger one a more valuable one which
is that narrative I think there was news
we talked about this during the
commercial break Russia was issuing yuan
bonds of course and I want to get to
when do you think
>> and what needs to happen for the Chinese
currency to become at some point a
reserve currency.
>> Yeah. Well, I think Chinese currency is
already a reserve currency. It's not a
dominance reserve currency yet because
you know um Lemi joined the SDL basket
uh [snorts] 10 years ago. So if you in
SDL basket, you are defacto reserve
currency. Yeah. But you're not a
dominant reserve currency. The share is
still very low like 2 to 3%.
>> Uh for that to happen,
I think you know a few things. Um in the
past there were there were two ter hair
headwinds to remb internationalization.
Number one is remimb is high interest
rate currency. You know Chinese 10year
bond is like 3 to 4%. US was a low
interest rate. So for foreigners to to
issue debt issue bond in remb is very or
to borrow in remb is very costly. Now
that has shifted around. Chinese 10year
bond is 1.6 or 1.8% 1.8% today. So it's
triple to borrowing remb. So that's from
headwind to tailwind. Number two um for
the past several years rem has been
under depreciation pressure because of
the interest rate gap. You know US is
high interest rate now US is low
interest rate. Now I think you know this
year rem is under pressure to
appreciate. So if you you know if you
want to hold rem asset you want it to be
an appreciating currency. So I think
that has also shifted. maybe is now you
know show more promise to be a you know
appreciating currency supported by
fundamentals
>> but competitiveness. Um so maybe you
know if I I want to add one more point
is really um we need to I think we can
you know um open up further
>> uh a you know a two-way street um
foreigners can access Chinese market
much easier and the Chinese resident can
access Hong Kong market you know through
this uh two-way connect um and then
there's also a a technical but important
technical issue um many investors I
talked to they also complain that you
know there's not many Chinese bonds to
to to to be bought.
>> Okay. Yeah. Supply issue. Yeah. Supply
issue because a lot of um Chinese
companies or
commercial banks they are in this buy
and hold mode. They buy the 10 year
Chinese government bond and they hold on
their balance sheet. So they they you
know they don't change hands. Uh I think
we should issue more bonds both on the
domestic market and offshore market to
to supply the safe assets.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh you also mentioned what it comes to
why we need a stronger remno is is the
need to stoke domestic demand
consumption as well. We heard a little
bit of that in that uh 15 years plan
>> 15 five year plan.
>> What needs to be done still to to boost
consumption?
Yeah, I think you know consumption is
really a function of two things, right?
It's how much you earn and how much you
plan to spend and both depends on
expectation. Now on income uh is really
three things is your labor income, your
asset income and your transfer income
from government. Um now labor income is
around 60%. I think to boost labor
income you really to to have a strong
job market. But I want to focus on the
second bit is the transfer income. The
transfer income represent 20%. I think
the transfer income has slowed down very
dramatically in the past two years
because of local government difficulties
because of lands has you know almost
huffed. Lancia has has come down a huge
um so I think you know that's also
linked to my previous argument that
central governments need to step in to
do more fiscal easing to help local
government to help the transfer income
so that's on the income side and then on
the uh the willingness to spend I think
we are still two cent
in terms of marginal propensity to
consume so average Chinese they earn $1
before covid they spended 68 cents.
>> Today they only spend 66 cents. So it's
about two cents short. They don't um
underestimate how much how important is
the two cent is because consumption is
more than half of the Chinese GDP. So
two cent is actually very meaningful.
>> So that you know I think is really
there's still some
cautiousness in people's consumption
decision making. So that I think is
something to do with uh how can we
reduce this precautionary saving? How
can we boost social safety net? Um
almost a month ago I come to your show I
talked about you know uh importantness
to to have a you know more inclusive
social safety net especially for people
retire in the rural area. I think that's
still the way to go.
>> Uh I have a final question for you
looking at next year.
>> Yeah.
>> Most of the allocations into the equity
market
>> Yeah.
>> have been to Hong Kong.
>> How do inforves investors need to think
about allocating more to the Asian
market?
>> To the Asian market. Um well I think you
know if you look at the valuation
um
right now
previously it's always H share market is
more expensive compared to Asia market
right now it's actually the other way
around market looks even cheaper
>> um
if you look at the equity risk premium
the uh Shanghai Shenzhen
composite index equity risk premium is
5%. 5% is historic average. It's not
expensive. It's not cheap. Hong Kong
depends on what you look at. If you look
at the US Treasury as the risk-free
rate, then it's like a 4% equity stream.
It's a bit expensive.
>> Yeah.
>> But you use leb
10ear bond as a risk-free rate, it's six
6%. That's still cheap. So I would say
um whether you allocate in Hong Kong on
the tech sector
>> Yeah.
>> or you allocate in mainland I think it's
are both are good strategies.
>> Yeah.
>> To me um you know this is a big global
monetary order reset is still in the
process.
>> Okay.
>> Uh money are coming to China whether
it's mainland and Hong Kong. I by the
way last time we know we we also talked
about the you know whether the AI bubble
etc.
I I think this is nobody knows.
>> Yeah,
>> it's you know detecting bubble in real
time is mission impossible. The market
can stay in rational longer than you can
stay liquid. But what I can say is um
you look at two things whether is
boosting productivity and whether
there's borrowed money involved other
people's money involved. I think this
time is probably different in the sense
that
very little leverage being used there
and I do feel and from my own personal
experience AI is changing people's life
changing me as a strategist you know as
economist life as well you know in the
way coming here
>> I used to ask my assistant and now use
assistant I just use my AI to [laughter]
to find the numbers
>> now I'm curious to see if your assistant
has a future in the company then we can
talk about Dr. Let's talk in the new
year. Thank you so much. Thank you for
the time. Uh Yenyang Mea there, chief
strategist at CIC. Still ahead here,
latest talks in Ukraine make no progress
towards [music] peace. Taiwan's foreign
minister speaks to us about China's role
in the conflict with relations and
relations [music] with Europe. More on
that ahead.
In some world news this morning, French
President Emanuel Macron begins a
three-day [music] visit to China today
with the Taiwan issue expected to take
center stage ahead of Macron's meeting
with Xi Jinping. [music]
Beijing has been seeking support from
France in his dispute with Japan over
Taiwan status. Trade will also be on the
agenda [music] with Macron pushing the
EU to deploy its toughest tools in
response to Chinese restrictions on rare
earth supplies. Taiwan is confident the
Trump administration will allow
President Lijing Da to make a stopover
in the US. This comes even after [music]
President Trump was said to have denied
a request for lie to pass through the US
in August during a trip to diplomatic
allies [music] Paraguay, Guatemala, and
Bise. Now, speaking exclusively to
Bloomberg, Foreign Minister Lin Jalom
[music]
said he does not foresee a similar
problem in the future.
the Trump nation already show uh its uh
uh uh goodwill and so based on our uh uh
uh communication
uh so we are confident in in in in in in
the near future. Yeah. We we can just uh
have a uh a visit to the Latin American
countries. Yeah. By way of uh the United
States.
President Trump has suggested the
Pentagon will soon begin targeting drug
cartels with strikes on land in
Venezuela and beyond. [music]
This follows a campaign that has largely
focused on alleged trafficking vessels
in the Caribbean [music] and Eastern
Pacific. Now, Trump has previously said
he wants to widen US military attacks
against cartels that have fueled a
deadly domestic opioid [music] crisis.
>> I want those boats taken out and we have
to will attack on land also just like we
attack on sea. We're doing these strikes
and we're going to start doing those
strikes on land, too.
>> Here's a look at when it comes to how
the region is set up on this Wednesday
morning. Hang Sang is lower, but the
rest in terms of mostly North Asia still
[music] doing quite well with the Nikay
and Cosby continuing on that recovery
there. We're up 1% on the Nikay [music]
and Cosby. This is Bloomberg.
Check in some corporate news this
morning. Tomy's prosecutors have charged
Tokyo Electron with failing [music] to
prevent staff from allegedly stealing
TSMC trade secrets. Now, they're asking
a local court to impose a [music] fine
on the company for ne neglecting its
duty to stop the alleged theft. Tokyo
Electron says it is still verifying the
[music] details that the indictment
targets its Taiwan unit. Tesla's China
factory shipments rose for only the
third time this [music] year amid a
global sales slum. Tesla slip shipped
about 86,000 vehicles from its Shanghai
[music] plant in November. That's up 10%
from a year earlier. It was the second
highest monthly total this year behind
September. The gain is a rare bright
spot for [music] the EV maker as it
faces subsidy cuts in the US and a
likely second straight annual decline in
sales. JD.com's supply chain technology
[music] unit has started taking investor
orders for a Hong Kong IPO that could
raise more than $420 million US. copying
more than two years of efforts to go
public. Beijing based Jingdong
Industrials [music] is set to list its
shares on December 11th. It keeps Hong
Kong's IPO market on [music] track to
see listing proceeds notch a 4year high.
>> Yeah, that story continues to give back
another stock. We'll tell you about that
later in in traded in mainland China.
It's also actually falling quite a bit
on the back of a Hong Kong unit IPO that
is in the in the offing. uh a statement
coming through out of the Chinese
Ministry of Culture and Tourism. It's on
the website if you read Chinese. I
believe it's in Mandarin. Anyway, that's
besides the point. uh unveiling these
measures to boost tourism and aviation
sector particularly from countries
participating in the belt and road
initiatives that includes things like
boosting air routes capacity as it
pertains to direct flights easing the
entry and travel for foreign tourists
there to come in into the domestic
market. Just very quickly, Samson CNT is
a story uh so Jelly effectively was was
shares from his mother were shifted to J
and that's really leading to the gains
we're seeing right now. Uh the biggest I
believe points contributor biggest
percentage gainer among the large caps
across the Asia Pacific today. This is
the China show. Back in a moment.
11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese [music]
markets are heading to that lunch break
in a moment. But yeah, you know, this
week has really been quite a volatile
one when it comes to [music] Japanese
assets, right? You are seeing a rebound
underway, at least when it comes to how
stocks are doing. We're up 1% for the
Nickeopics is flat here and we're at 155
levels. So maybe a little bit of
strength coming back um on the currency,
but certainly the key focus has been of
course the the the JGB selloff. It's
stabilized a bit now as we kind of mark
the midway of this week, but we're at
187 levels and we still got about what
16 more days, two more weeks until that
BOJ meeting. So still a lot of
speculation out there of what the BOJ is
going to do uh then as well. Are we set
up for a rate hike in December or
January? But yeah, how the rest of Asia
doing?
>> I mean, they should just do it. I mean,
[laughter] might at this point
>> if it's if it's just a matter of
December or January,
might as well ease the ease the
uncertainty out there.
>> Appease the investors out there and bond
traders.
>> And you know, they do they they tend to
have a habit of surprising markets
anyway in December, right? So, might as
well
>> uh well, I mean, if that's the case,
then maybe do it in Feb. But anyway,
that's besides the point. A 10 to 1%.
Don't listen to my advice on that. That
was just random. 10 [laughter] 1% to the
upside on the Asia-Pacific. Uh it's a
very weak dollar story. I know it's not
showing up in absolute terms when you
look at the Bloomberg dollar index but
when you look at certain currencies like
the the remmbb which is weaker today but
it has been on the stronger side of
things you look at G10 u we did get
though some data today out of oz GDP
numbers also by the I think in South
Korea also coming out today right
setting that aside it's generally a an
uneventful
markets day uh which gives us I think
more time to focus on some key themes
that have reemerged of late
>> yeah Wanka certainly is the big one here
and whether there is this sort of
renewed sort of concerns around the
property market. Is this the next phase
of of market clearing? Uh for example,
that certainly is one question the
market is asking for here right now. Uh
Blue Economics has come up with their
take on all this and and they're saying,
you know, China Wonga's potential
default could wipe out any remaining
belief in Beijing's implicit backing for
the sector. for more insight on the
long-term gains and short-term risks
this spring. And David Chu, he's with us
right now on on what the potential sort
of ramifications are of really letting
Wanka go. What what do you think is
going to be the biggest sort of impact?
>> Yeah, for uh Wanker's case, I think uh
we think that uh the the most important
risks is not in the credit market but in
the housing market. We all know that the
China's housing market has been sluggish
for a couple of years and uh and now if
we if we have another major developers
developer defaulting in the market it
mean it means that it will again uh
reduce the confidence in the housing
market so that to to drag the sales
again but in the credit side we think
that the market has largely priced in uh
the financial stress in the in Vancou
And also we have seen a lot of defaults
over the past several years. So that I
think the credit market uh react should
be manageable.
>> Okay. So what's the what's your
suggestion then?
Well, uh it's hard to give a silver
bullet here, but I think uh uh the
government should stick uh into the
market principle that uh because they
have used a lot of money to help banker
and I think maybe it they can consider
another solution here. But whatever it
happens uh we I think that the market uh
the government need to uh continue to
support the housing market uh to uh
prevent a crash in the market. because
you have seen that the the market has
been uh so so soft and the the prices of
the housing has been uh going down for
more than 3 years. So that um a
continuous support is still needed
and
>> and David there's been a lot of chatter
about what sort of policy levers
authorities still have in terms of
reviving this this property sector. I
think this prospect of of mortgage
subsidies,
how substantial does it have to be to
really kind of spark some sort of
revival?
Well, I think uh the market has been
talking about the uh the mortgage
interest subsidy by the uh fiscal uh
well, I agree with that, but I I think
it's not important uh sorry, it's not
enough to boost the uh and or to reverse
the uh downturn of the housing sector.
The key issue in the housing sector is
the over supply in the low tier cities
such as the tier three and tier four
cities. And uh the government actually
has done a lot of effort uh in the past
years such as uh buying the uh provide
uh uh lending to local government to buy
the uh over supplies in the market. But
it seems that this all of these policies
are not uh enough to push back the
housing sector. So that I think anyway
we need more uh support from the
government and uh it also needs more
time.
>> Yeah. But we we've been waiting for
quite a bit too. Uh David, thank you so
much for setting us up. It's a story
certainly we'll continue to be on top of
going into going into next year. Uh
that's just also to mention uh Robin
Shink comes in the show quite regularly
out of Morgan Stanley. Uh there's a
story out on the terminal that talks
about this. So he I think he had this uh
I believe a conversation with reporters
in Beijing to talk about what he thinks
should be part of the solution here I
think to the point you're making on
mortgage
>> subsidies
>> and as David mentioned right it's all
about the size and scope of whether you
know to determine the effectiveness of
these sort of mortgage subsidies right
and and he says really you have to spend
about 400 billion remmbb a year to
really kind of lift the sort of battered
you know confidence when it comes to
consumers so um they may take a more
gradual flex ible approach when it comes
to the fiscal side of things but they
say mortgage subsidies is just one
option that could be rolled out here uh
for the property market.
>> Yeah. And I think the one measure he's
putting forward is if I think if you
want to measure progress or you know do
I rent let me put it simply do I rent or
do I buy and I think what he's saying is
you have to lower the borrowing cost um
to par if not lower to bring borrowing
cost in line with rental yields and I
think that then makes that incentive
prism more in favor of of of buyers.
>> Yeah. for more on terms of the property
sector. Let's talk about what this means
for the banks. Of course, here Mayan,
head of Asia Financial Research at UBS
Investment Bank. In terms of the
property exposure this time around for
for some of these Chinese banks, what is
sort of your sort of take so far?
>> Yeah. Uh we have analyzed the uh impact
um downside impact from both the
corporate uh developer loan exposure as
well as the residential like mortgages
and individual operating loans. So we do
expect uh roughly more than two trillion
R&B losses on the banking sector from
the developers uh loans loans to
developers or the shadow banking
investment they did with the developers.
Um so Venkey would be one other that
added to the how many 70 80 of them they
already defaulted right so yeah um so
that would uh already be enough forecast
uh for the next couple of years um
credit costs for the banks so our view
is that actually the Chinese banks um on
the positive side the revenue is
bottoming uh this year and it's going to
turn into positive uh growth next
um you know last five years they had the
revenue drop in
>> the revenue drop. Yeah. Last five years
they've been has seen declining revenue
uh in um since co but this year is the
bottom and it's going to turn positive
growth in the next uh 5 years in our
forecast and that will uh help them to
rebuild more reserves that the reserves
can be used to cushion for all of these
uh MPLs
>> and of that what was that number again
two trillion that you mentioned. Yeah
about two trillion R&B in terms of
developer loan losses and shadow banking
investment losses.
>> How much of that has already been
>> provision?
>> Provision. Yeah. So how how much do we
know about already?
>> Um the banks have uh provision more
proactively ahead of the NPLs that they
have recognized the NPR ratio reported
is only four to 5% for developer loans
but some of the banks have provisioned
up to 14 15%
>> for their loans. So um I think um more
than half um more than one trillion has
been provisioned by the banks already.
>> Okay.
>> What's more important when you we
determine the MPL sort of ratios? Is it
more about cash flows or do I look at
property price declines?
>> Um for the residential side MPL's we
think cash flow income and uh job job
security jobless rate is more important.
um as we you know referenced the Hong
Kong um banking history in 97 to 2003.
So property price dropped 68% and 30% of
people in 20 uh 2002 already have uh
negative equity but the delinquency
ratio was only as high as 1.4%. So it's
important um for cash flow whether they
can coverage um their um they cover
their mortgage payment or not. So in
from that perspective, we actually um
recently wrote about this that we think
the mortgage NPR will go up from
currently about 1% to 1.6%
uh in 2027. Uh and the property uh
residential property back individual
operating loans NPR will triple from
right now 1.8% 1.6% to 4.8%. Um and the
banks would need to provision for that.
Um but the provisioning uh which is
roughly about uh 900 billion that's
needed is also in our five-year forecast
uh which we think the banks will be able
to manage that. The only I think the
risk is um whether you know the orderly
sort of resolution of the property
pressure um it's okay for the banks to
measure uh to to to accommodate to
afford but if there's going to be a
crisis or you know collapse situation
that will be uh something that bank um
would be difficult to handle.
>> I mean the market ju just to use the
Vanco example as one example but not
specifically on that case. I mean the
market's trying to figure out how VA is
able to meet its liquidity
>> u needs right and is it in the bond
markets where that doesn't seem to be a
good option because looking at where
bond prices are is the banking sector
still a viable option for many of these
developers to tide them through in terms
of their ability
>> uh and willingness to to extend those
loans. banks uh are asked by the
government to support the property
sector and so in the last couple years
is not to early recall their loans
>> to um to take back the loans. Yeah.
>> So they've done that and um but not
really adding too much uh additional
exposure. Um so I think um they are more
willing to help on the mortgage side uh
because the collaterals are more you
know safer. Um but on the developers I
think um you know they will need to go
through restructuring as the Veni case
uh will turn out to be. I think uh for
most of the uh de defaulted developers
there at least the offshore bonds had a
haircut of 90% or so. So recovery is
very low. So you need to cut their debt
to be a able really helping them. Uh
just extending the loan is uh or the the
bond is not going to help.
>> Yeah. You me we talked about mortgage
subsidies. anything that you think in
terms of the policy side that could
actually reduce risks? Yeah, I think um
there are two or three things that's
already in the pipeline where the uh
central bank governor Pangong has
mentioned about um removing some of the
default history for the individuals uh
since um you know co happened 2020 that
they have defaulted on smaller amount
but since then repaid uh so because
China doesn't have a personal bankruptcy
law system so they may never emerge out
of that so uh the central bank is uh uh
thinking to uh studying to remove that
record that will help them on the on the
buying mortgage again or like a credit
score.
>> Yeah, credit scoring system. And then
secondly, the Ministry of Housing have
announced that they will deliver um um
7.5 million units that has been uh
stopped or suspended and that seems to
be on pace that's um uh on track to
happen. Uh that helps too. But um other
than that I think eventually you will
need another rate cut on the mortgage as
well. be it the subsidy from the
ministry of finance or from the banking
system again because the there uh two
times already uh on the cutting rate of
mortgage rate on the uh existing
mortgage book because you need that um
you know what's mentioned earlier um 2%
or less of mortgage rate to clear the
property market because the rental yield
is roughly about 1.8% or so.
>> Ah that's good to know actually. Okay.
[laughter]
>> Uh so you talked about revenue growth.
uh we're probably going to be positive
next year. Can I ask you 2026 overall
the sector profit growth how much
>> and the dividends that people have been
playing this year does that remain a
play next year?
>> Yeah, that's the key. I think uh what's
supporting the Chinese bank's uh stock
price is the dividend sustainability.
uh where in our five-year forecast
actually we do think they c they can
maintain the DPS um you know after of
course the the capital ejection dilution
but they can maintain the DPS and so the
revenue um our forecast next year is
roughly growing at 1 to 2% and
eventually um grow to four to 5% by
2029. So it's an acceleration of revenue
growth because I do think the net
interest margin compression uh is
getting smaller and maybe uh plateau um
sort of by 2027 uh that supports and the
fee cut also is coming to an end. So
yeah so the revenue and then banks are
doing more of uh treasury operations to
make gains on the bonds. Yeah. until
revenue growth is looking a bit more
positive but they will not pass all the
four 5% revenue growth to the bottom
line net profit uh rather net profit
growth will still be about uh low single
digit 1 to 2%. Because they will need
the gap to rebuild the reserves to
absorb all these uh NPLs
>> may it's always fantastic to really get
geeky on the Chinese financial sector.
May yen there of course head of Asia
financials research at UBS investment
bank uh perfect outlook as we go into
next year. We'll take a short break back
in a moment. A look at markets down 1%
or so on the Hangen index [music] and
peers slightly less when you look at
Asshare markets. This is the China show,
right? Um an update here on Russia.
Well, Russia has dashed hopes of
immediate progress at least towards a
Ukraine ceasefire deal, saying talks in
Moscow between President Putin and US
envoys could not reach an agreement on
what the Kremlin calls uh quote
territorial issues. Uh Putin met with
Steve Whit and Jared Kushner for almost
5 hours. His foreign policy aid says the
wording of some US proposal is not
acceptable and work will continue. Axio
says that the US team is expected to
meet Ukraine's president somewhere in
Europe after leaving Moscow.
>> Meanwhile, Taiwan's foreign minister
says Taiwan and Europe share common
security interests after Russia's
invasion of Ukraine and calling China a
quote decisive enabler of the war. Then
Jaong spoke with us exclusively about
opportunities for closer ties with
Europe.
I think uh in terms of uh our uh uh
diplomatic relation with uh uh uh
European countries uh uh it's full of
loom for uh uh mutual uh cooperation uh
for three uh uh reasons.
The first one is the uh uh Russians
invasion of uh Ukraine. So now uh uh
European country are facing the uh stray
from uh Russia with China being the
decisive enabler
>> behind the wall.
>> Decisive enabler.
>> Yes. And now uh we we have a a a common
interest in terms of uh uh security. So
because Europe and Taiwanese trade are
interconnected with uh each other right
now. The second one is the uh President
Trump's approach toward NATO because uh
President Trump uh reposition its
strategistic uh uh uh uh uh uh uh view
uh to ship to the Pac Pacific.
>> So to ask European countries for more uh
burden sharing in terms of uh defense
budget. Yeah. For example, by the year
Yeah. 5% Yeah. Yeah. of the GDP. Yeah.
Yeah. In the in depends uh uh uh uh uh
uh spending. And also I think uh for
Taiwan to be a indispensable partner.
>> Yeah. Yeah,
>> for the European countries, we not just
share uh uh uh uh uh uh uh common
values, but we have uh strategic
interest in terms of the restructuring
of supply chain resilience.
>> Right.
>> How [clears throat] about finding other
nations to cooperate in chips? We do
know uh the United States there TSMC
plants being built in Arizona. We know
in Kumamoto, Japan uh also new fabs
being built there. What is going to be
the diplomatic efforts from your
department, your ministry uh to further
those aims and what other negotiations
are you having with other countries for
diversification and chip cooperation? I
think for uh Taiwan to uh work with uh
other countries, we uh want to uh uh uh
show our uh goodwill in terms of
cooperation uh on the semicontact supply
chain residilians. So for those
countries such as the Philippine, yeah,
uh we have a very good uh uh uh uh uh
relation uh with the Philippine. So we
also have some yeah already uh I think
some projects on talent cultivation.
>> APEC obviously is going to be held in
China next year in Shenzhen. Uh but
there's going to be rather than you know
till the end of the year when you're
going to have the leaders u visits or
summit you're also going to have many
different sub or ministerial level
meetings. Is that something given
Beijing's insistence that you be called
Taipei China? Is it something that you
feel Taiwan will participate in China
sending ministers to China? I think we
will participate in in next year's EPAC
uh uh summit uh uh held in China but uh
I think as a host China uh should abide
by the APAC uh guidelines uh uh
regulations and uh I think uh uh all
practices yeah in line with uh I think
uh equal uh uh participation uh in
including Taiwan. So once China uh uh
want to downgrade the participation of
Taiwan, I think we will try every effort
to protest to to co coordinate with our
Lmatic countries to act yeah for uh
equal participation as a host of the
next year's meeting. Uh I think China
should behave and we will yeah work with
yeah I think other country to to fight
for our uh uh rights for equal
participation.
>> Taiwan's foreign minister Ling Jaong
there speaking exclusively with our
chief North Asia correspondent Stephen
Engel in Taipei. And if you are a
subscriber and want to rewatch that
interview, you can do so by watching our
interactive [music] TV function TV go.
You can also become part of the
conversation by sending us instant
messages. This is Bloomberg.
Right. We're looking at [music] magnet
related, rare earth related stocks. Uh
first cohort here, at least [music]
three uh producers have been granted
export licenses that now enables them to
then accelerate. Back to the
conversation from uh Korea about 6 weeks
back already. shipments following the
truce between US and China. That's
according to Reuters citing uh an
unnamed source there, but shares are
broadly to the upside against the
broader decline across the benchmarks
here. Yeah.
>> Yep. So, watching of course uh this is
the one that's
>> Yes. The one that filed for that Hong
Kong listing. This is Shenzhen
Transition filing there. So, the stock
is down some 7%. Uh we're also watching
that Singapore debut. uh when it comes
to fluorescent technology and the like
ultra green AI still doing quite well in
Singapore first day of school we're up
some 8% as well um so certainly that's
one to watch but it is kind of slow
going here but one thing to watch of
course we talk about the remn the
strength there is is the the other side
of it is the weakness in the rupee right
we we hit that record low uh yesterday
as well and we're in edging very close
to that 90 per dollar mark um and it
really you the signs of really whether
we get a trade deal or not are very
contingent to where the rupee goes now
because I think at this point you're
seeing the RBI step back in terms of
really deploying their reserves to to
defend the currency if there is no trade
deal in place. So that certainly is one
thing a good big headwind really for the
currency.
>> Yeah. Well, one level to watch which is
very [music] simple. It's just 90
levels. That's it from us here on the
China show. It's the birthday of our
producer by the way. So happy.
>> Happy birthday [music] Sam.
>> We'll see you all tomorrow.